#### Work Stream 1: Co-production and Criteria for Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) with LLMs

**Background & challenges:** Regulatory frameworks, guidance and proposed legislation have been introduced to address privacy, accuracy and explainability of automated systems (EU AI Act, UK Government’s National AI Strategy, UK Algorithmic Transparency, UK Government National Data Strategy, UK White Paper: A Pro-innovation Approach to AI Regulation, UK ICO guidance on explaining AI). It is not clear how domain experts can translate this regulation to meet needs for LLM technology use.

<br>

**Foci & implementation:** We will review and synthesise regulatory expectations and principles of ethical and responsible innovation into a set of requirement criteria for safe and responsible use of AI within medicine and the law. Such criteria are expected to include e.g. privacy preservation, inclusivity, factuality, situational awareness, explicability. The full set of criteria will be defined through interactions within our multi-disciplinary team, partners and relevant stakeholders, guided by the RRI AREA framework, and in the light of ethics literature that goes beyond the AREA framework. We will examine how the criteria translate to practical needs in measuring safety and effectiveness in law and healthcare, especially through scoping workshops with partners. A co-creation ‘by design’ approach will be key at this stage to shape the lifecycle of LLM-based legal and medical AI. Specifically the methods in this WP will involve: (a) surveying regulatory frameworks, the literature on ethical challenges and safety issues in the application of technology in legal practice and medical diagnostics as well as suitable analysis and design frameworks; (b) consultations, interviews, studies of work practices through observation and discussions with practitioners; (c) scoping workshops with partners and all co-Is, lead by the RAi and domain experts to establish requirement criteria that translate frameworks into practice in the context of legal and medical use cases. The workshops will help further refine the use cases; (d) A series of scenario-based co-creation workshops where use case prototypes will be progressively evolved and evaluated by stakeholders using benchmarks developed in Work Stream 2.

<br>

**Outputs:** We will obtain **requirements criteria & associated publications for RRI with LLMs** for real-world applications within the identified high stake medical and legal use cases. This Work Stream will drive a **co-production feedback loop with stakeholders**.